README.md, before:

# Pardon our dust

__This project has been dormant for a while, but changes are coming! We're making a new home on GitHub, so please bear with me as I clean up the wiki. But that's not all! A Plasma 5 port is in the works so watch this space.__

# Overview

Socket Sentry is a KDE Plasma widget that displays real-time traffic information for active network connections on your Linux computer. It shows you which processes are communicating with which hosts, current data transfer rates, protocols, and more. You can view all connections or see summary traffic by host pair and process or program. It supports IPv4 and 6, optional host name lookups with configurable subdomain depth, and many sorting and filtering options including pcap filter expressions.

Project home: https://github.com/rhasselbaum/socket-sentry

# Installation

See the INSTALL file for details on how to build and install the software. Alternatively, packages are available for certain distros. Check the web site for details.

# Authors and license

_ Copyright (C) 2010-2015 by Rob Hasselbaum <rob@hasselbaum.net> _

_ Socket Sentry is free software distributed under the GNU General Public	License version 3. See the LICENSE file for terms. _

# On the web

* Project home: https://github.com/rhasselbaum/socket-sentry
* Bug reports: https://github.com/rhasselbaum/socket-sentry/issues
* Discussion group: http://groups.google.com/group/socket-sentry

Commit message:

Update doc for transition to GitHub

README.md, after:

# Watch this space

__This project has been dormant for a while, but changes are coming! We're making a new home on GitHub so please bear with me as I clean up the wiki. Plus, an update to Plasma 5 is in the works. Stay tuned for more news.__

# Overview

Socket Sentry is a KDE Plasma 4 widget that displays real-time traffic information for active network connections on your Linux computer. It shows you which processes are communicating with which hosts, current data transfer rates, protocols, and more. You can view all connections or see summary traffic by host pair and process or program. It supports IPv4 and 6, optional host name lookups with configurable subdomain depth, and many sorting and filtering options including pcap filter expressions.

# Installation

See the INSTALL file for details on how to build and install the software. The binary distro packages have been discontinued temporarily while we work on Plasma 5 support. 

# Legal

_Copyright (C) 2010-2016 by Rob Hasselbaum <rob@hasselbaum.net>_

_Socket Sentry is free software distributed under the GNU General Public License version 3. See the LICENSE file for terms._

# On the web

* Project home: https://github.com/rhasselbaum/socket-sentry
* Wiki: https://github.com/rhasselbaum/socket-sentry/wiki
* Bug reports: https://github.com/rhasselbaum/socket-sentry/issues
* Discussion group: http://groups.google.com/group/socket-sentry
